# jobojacobe.github.io

Hangman Game
This is a hangman game where the user clicks on the Start button, which randomly selects one of 10,000 possible words. The user then clicks on letters of the alphabet, guessing which letters are in the word. Each guess is checked against the chosen word, and will either make the letter appear in the appropriate places, if present. Or, Progress the hangman image, letting the user know the letter they guessed doesn't not appear in the word. The user can make 7 incorrect guesses, or 11 total guesses, resulting in a loss of the game. Or, the user has correctly guessed all letters present in the word, and within the allotment of total guesses, resulting in a win condition. The user is then presented with the option of going to a Highscores screen, playing again, or closing the browser window. If the user goes to the Highscores screen, it will show the top ten users that won their word, for the same number of letters in the word. The list is sorted so that the number one position is the person who won in the fewest amount of guesses.

For this program, there is a front end, and a back end. The front end is responsible for displaying the game to the user and communicating with the user and the back end. The front end doesn't know the word that is chosen for that game. It will send letter guesses to the back end, and receive an array. If the array is empty, the letter does not appear in the word. If the array contains numbers, the numbers represent the position the guessed letter appears in the word. The backend communicates with a database to obtain the chosen word. It first randomizes an integer between 1 and 10,000. It then uses the randomized integer to pull the word and store it in a cookie with the user's credentials. This way, the back end can keep track of the chosen word for that session.


Four in a Row Game
This is a game where two players take turns "dropping" their "tokens" into a grid. The point is to make a line of four same-color tokens, either horizontally, vertically, or diagonally.

A grid of cells is used, where a column of cells are all linked together. This is required so that when a user clicks anywhere within a column, the program will check all of the cells in that column. As long as the top cell of the column is empty, the program will "place the token" into that column, making it occupy the next available column from the bottom. If the top cell is not empty, then the program will do nothing, indicating the column is full and not available to the user. Each time a user places a token into a cell, the program checks all filled cells for a win condition. A win condition is defined as four same-color tokens in a row, where each row of tokens can be in a literal row, a column, or a diagonal. All possible win conditions are stored in an array, which is iterated over and compared to the current condition of the game.

Banking App
This app allows a user to log in and manage their bank account, or register for an account if they don't have one. The system recognizes three different roles of user. A Customer, which can see balances for their own checking, savings, and investment accounts. And can also make deposits, withdrawals, and transfers for their own account. If the user is an Employee, they can do everything a Customer can do, but to all available accounts within the database. Employees can also transfer from one Customer's account to another Customer's account, but this functionality hasn't been added to the app yet. The last role is an Administrator. An Administrator can do everything a Customer and an Employee can do. And can also change the role of a user.
